

# References

The main schematics used in this analysis is "Oberheim_OB-1_Schematics.pdf" (source). Some additional information is available from the second schematics document "Oberheim OB-1 Service Schematics.pdf" (source).


# Control voltage

The control voltages are generated by a DAC and sample-and-hold circuit (page 7). The DAC is a 6-bit weighted resistor ladder type with linear scale. The normalized value "val" that can be represented is therefore 0.0 to 0.984375, with resolution of 0.015625. 

The reference voltage V_R is generated by a 723 (U33, far right side of page 4). The output of this regulator is trimmable by means of T2, ranging from 10.47 V to 11.52 V. Looking at this range, it is reasonable to assume that the intended design value for V_R is 11.0 V.

There is a trimpot T17 to calibrate DAC voltage scale. With this trimpot set to its extremes:

- Minimum: V_dac = -0.1725 + 5.06 * val, range: -0.1725 ~ 4.808 V
- Maximum: V_dac = -0.1875 + 5.5 * val, range: -0.1875 ~ 5.227 V

Taking the middle value as the intended design voltage, we have:

V_dac = -0.18 + 5.28 * val, range: -0.18 ~ 5.02 V

The S&H circuit consists of 4051 CMOS switches (U56, U57), 100 nF capacitors (C37 - C52), and unity-gain buffers (U58, U59, U60, U61). The total gain is 1, so all the control voltages have the same range as the DAC output, -0.18 ~ 5.02 V.

The typical ON resistance of 4051 at the operating condition (Vs=+10V, 25C) is 180 ohms. The RC time constant for the S&H is thus 10 us. The propagation delay times are 160 ns for address to out, 160 ns for turning on, and 90 ns for turning off. These values are negligible compared to the RC time constant. According to the other schematics file (Oberheim OB-1 Service Schematics.pdf, page 6), there are 22 time-multiplexed signals with period of 19.6 ms. Each signal is therefore held for 89.1 us, around 9x the S&H time constant.

